Well, starting tomorrow, work is the
rest of your life.
That's right. So, my first wish, find
work that gives you great joy. Jensen is
here, of course, the CEO of Nvidia.
This is the clear winner of every winner
in the world of artificial intelligence.
>> What an amazing year.
>> His company powers everything from Open
AI, uh, Google's programs. You are the
stars. This is a celebration of your
science, of your work, and your
innovations.
>> My second wish for you is to learn to
embrace failure.
>> You know, once upon a time, Nvidia was a
failing company. Their first product was
such a disaster that the customers had
completely rejected their products.
Microsoft had launched a lethal product
that made them absolutely useless. And
Nvidia only had 30 days of cash left.
At the time that we started the company,
1993, we were the only consumer 3D
graphics company ever created.
>> The year is 1996, and Nvidia is
collapsing.
>> We won a contract with Sega to build
their game console, which attracted
games for our platform and funded our
company. After one year of development,
we realized our architecture was the
wrong strategy.
>> The condition of the company was so bad
that Jensen was skipping electricity
bills just to pay his employees. And
during this time, the office lights were
dimmed only to decrease their
electricity bills. And just when things
couldn't get any worse, something even
more terrible happened. Their biggest
client dropped them. Their engineers
needed to be laid off. And the entire
Silicon Valley was laughing at Nvidia.
And while Nvidia was choking under
pressure, Intel was making $5 billion
every single quarter. Chip maker Intel
has seen its best ever first quarter
earnings as its profits quadrupled on
the back of increased sales. By 1992, it
became the world's largest chipmaker by
revenue according to the company. By
1997, its chips served as the brains of
84% of the world's computers. And Intel
alone was so powerful that they could
outspend, outgineer, and outlive every
rival in the game. But right when Nvidia
was about to die, a miracle happened.
Jensen Yuan built a chip. A chip so
miraculous that it did not just save
Nvidia, it was a stepping stone to turn
Nvidia into the most powerful company in
the world. And today, ladies and
gentlemen, Nvidia is worth $4.2
trillion, which is more than Apple, more
than Microsoft, and more than the GDP of
185 countries in the world.
>> Today, Nvidia is the bell of the ball.
Today's gain was yet another record
high.
A new milestone in the world of
artificial intelligence.
>> Invidia became the first company hit a
market value of
>> $4 trillion market cap. Chad GBT has
started a very intense conversation.
>> Think it's the most revolutionary thing
since the iPhone.
>> But the question is when this company
was just 30 days away from bankruptcy,
how did this $4 trillion miracle happen?
In the world of artificial intelligence,
>> most valuable tech company
>> and Nvidia
[Music]
Before we dive in, let's take a moment
to thank ODO for supporting our podcast.
Imagine a small manufacturing company in
Pune that consistently juggles between
multiple software tools like one for
inventory, another for accounting and
another for sales. This leads to
miscommunication, inefficiencies and
valuable time is lost in just managing
these disconnected systems. But what if
all your business needs could be handled
in just one place? Well, this is where
ODO comes in as a gamecher for
businesses of all sizes. ODO is an
all-in-one enterprise resource planning
platform that brings together 45
easytouse applications. Whether you are
managing your sales, invoicing, project
management, inventory or even building a
website, ODO centralizes everything on a
single platform. So no more juggling, no
more disconnected tools and no more
dealing with messy integrations. ODU has
a very seamless integration. Every app
communicates with the other which
creates a unified system. For example,
sales is automatically in sync with
inventory and accounting, which gives
you a real-time overview of your
business performance. And ODO's
user-friendly interface ensures that
everyone from a seasoned manager to a
first-time user can adapt to the
platform effortlessly. So, as your
business grows, ODO grows with you. It's
completely scalable and it will allow
you to add new applications as your
needs evolve. Automation tools
streamline repetitive tasks and give you
more time to focus on what truly
matters, which is scaling your business.
The best part, your first ODO
application is completely free for life
with unlimited hosting and support
included. So, if you want to grow your
business in a flash, check out the link
in the description and start your
journey with ODO today.
[Music]
To understand Nvidia, you need to know
what exactly is a chip and why does the
world care so much about chips. You see,
in 2025, when you're holding a phone,
watching videos, using AI, making calls,
or even scrolling through Instagram,
none of this magic comes from your
screen. It comes from something
invisible which is buried deep inside
your phone. This object is called a
chip. It's not just any part. It is
literally the brain of everything
digital. So every time you swipe to
unlock, tap to shoot in a video game,
zoom on Google Maps, or even while
watching a YouTube video, a chip is
doing millions of calculations every
single second just to make these
functions happen. It takes your tap,
decodes it, renders it, processes it,
and then turns it into an action on the
screen. And the most miraculous thing
about chips is that they are faster than
a blink of an eye, smaller than your
fingernail, but they are so powerful
that the entire world from Instagram to
CH GPT to Netflix to Amazon to even
Apple iPhones run on these chips. But
back in 1993, this was not very obvious.
At the time, the PC revolution was just
starting.
>> All the major tech companies would be
racing to the pinnacle of the PC market.
From Microsoft software and faster
processors to 3D graphics and modern
gaming, a storm that would change how we
work, play, and live.
>> The world of 1983 was completely
different. Computers were bulky,
expensive, and mostly boring. So, all
you could do with these computers was
use spreadsheets, word documents, and
boring 2D interfaces. But that is when
something insane happened when the world
was introduced to a new concept called
video games.
[Music]
Now, as soon as video games were
introduced, games went from flat pixels
to 3D worlds. This is where the world
fell in love with games like Doom and
Quick. But this is when Jensen and his
two co-founders observed two big
problems in the industry. Firstly, they
observed that to play these amazing
games, you needed a separate console
like a Super Nintendo or a Sega Genesis.
And secondly, computers just couldn't
handle these games at all. They didn't
have specialized chips that were needed
to run high-speed, highquality graphics
because these chips needed to do
billions, I repeat, billions of
calculations every single second to make
you play a simple game. For example,
when you play Call of Duty, you are
sprinting through a battlefield where
the bullets are flying and explosions
are everywhere. The lighting changes as
you move from a dark hallway all the way
into a sunlight. And while this happens,
shadows shift and smoke reacts to
gunfire. But behind the scenes, the
computer is working like crazy. The
computer is figuring out how bright the
sunlight should hit your helmet, how
shadows fall on the wall behind you, and
how the grenade spins through the air
and how it explodes right next to an
enemy. And all of this movement,
physics, lighting, and reaction is being
calculated in real time. The computer
does this 60 times per second, frame by
frame, to keep the game smooth and real.
That's millions of tiny calculations
happening at lightning speed. Sounds
like a lot, right? Now, you would think,
you know, what's the big deal with a
computer making a million calculations?
It should be simple. Look at this. This
is Mario 64 in 1996, which needed 100
million calculations every second to
run. Minecraft in 2011 needed 100
billion calculations per second. And new
games like Call of Duty: Modern Warfare
2 need over 36 trillion calculations to
be done every single second. That is
what it takes to make every explosion
feel real, every reload feel smooth, and
every shot hit just right. That's what
it takes a computer to give you the
perfect headshot. And to do all of this
back then, you needed a miraculous chip
that can perform billions of
calculations per second. But the problem
was that back in 1995, people would
laugh at games thinking it was a kidish
domain. Everyone saw games as toys for
kids. In fact, the entire tech world was
busy chasing business software, servers,
and spreadsheets. Because of which, VCs
turned these game companies away.
Engineers did not want to join game
companies and the industry saw it as a
complete waste of talent.
So, the question is when the entire
world was against games, why was Jensen
crazy enough to build chips for games?
Well, this is what reminds me of
something very wise that Anaml told me
at the podcast. He said that a great
entrepreneur is defined by the most
non-obvious insight he has about the
industry that nobody else believes in. I
repeat, a great entrepreneur is defined
by the most nonobvious insight he has
about the industry that no one else
believes in. In this case, while
everyone discarded games, Jensen
believed something the world hadn't
realized yet. While the world mocked
games, Jensen was watching the math
behind this madness. When others saw
fun, Jensen saw the future in gaming
because games demanded speed. They
required higher resolution graphics and
they had to run millions of calculations
with no lag and no delay. So Jensen knew
that if they could only build chips that
were powerful enough to run games
smoothly, they could build chips for
anything. If their chips could survive
the chaos of a video game, they could
thrive in any field from rockets to
robotics, from medicine to movies. That
is how Nvidia saw chips as a gateway to
the future of computing. That is how
ladies and gentlemen in 1995 Nvidia
launched their first product, a computer
chip called NV1.
the NB1 chip that was released in
November 1995, Sound Blaster compatible
audio systems and 15pin joystick ports.
To top it off, it would be compatible
with the Sega Saturn console that was
about to hit the market. The stars were
aligned for it. This chip was supposed
to be magical because this one chip
alone could handle everything from
graphics to sound and even game
controls. And back then, Sega, the
Japanese gaming giant, partnered with
Nvidia and bundled their new PC game
controller with Nvidia's chip. So, when
this collaboration happened to the
entire industry, it looked like the
perfect match. There was a giant gaming
company and there was a chip
manufacturer who was being supported by
the giant gaming company. So, it
couldn't be any better. But this is when
something terrible happened. Like I said
in the intro, Nvidia NV1 failed so
miserably that Nvidia had to beg Sega to
break the partnership and things got so
bad that out of the 250,000 units they
sold, 249,000
units came back from the distribution
partners. The question is why? This was
supposed to be the perfect match in
Silicon Valley, right? Well, the reason
was Microsoft. Microsoft launched
something called DirectX.
>> One example of this was Microsoft's
DirectX. It's the most powerful and
efficient graphics API.
>> Microsoft's DirectX APIs only supported
triangle primitives.
>> DirectX was a set of rules and tools
created by Microsoft in 1995 specially
for game developers. So DirectX was
Microsoft's way of telling the game
developers that if you want your games
to work on Windows PCs, you'll have to
follow these instructions. And the first
rule was to use triangles to draw
everything. Now I know this sounds a
little complicated. So, let's break this
down using a game that we all love,
which is Call of Duty.
[Music]
In Call of Duty, when you see a soldier
running, the gun in his hand, the helmet
on his head, and the buildings around
him, all of them are built using
thousands of tiny triangles. Triangles
are like digital Lego blocks. Stack
enough of them, and you will get a face,
a weapon, and even a whole battlefield.
These are called low poly models which
are made up of simple triangles and
optimized for speed. But Nvidia said,
"Let's skip triangles and use curves or
quadratic surface textures to make
everything look smoother." In other
words, Nvidia wanted to build high poly
models which were rich, fluid, and
realistic. But the problem was that
Microsoft said, "If you want your games
to work on our PCs, you must use
triangles and not curves." Because
DirectX, which was Microsoft's new
graphics standard, it was built entirely
on low poly trianglebased rendering. So
if game developers had to build games
for Nvidia, they had to develop
everything from scratch. It's almost
like saying you build an app for iOS
when the platform you need to launch it
on is Android. That is what happened to
Nvidia when they built a graphics chip
NV1 that did not follow DirectX. That's
what happened to Nvidia when they built
the graphics chip NV1, which did not
follow DirectX instructions. So, if you
think about it, this wasn't just a tech
disagreement. This was war. Microsoft
had locked the doors and Nvidia had
built the wrong key. So, the game
developers started ignoring NV1 and
Nvidia was left with 249,000
useless chips. This is the reason why
Nvidia practically had to beg Sega to
break the contract. Eventually, the
distributors returned the product and
Nvidia was 30 days away from bankruptcy.
So, the question is what exactly did
Jensen do and how did he turn Nvidia
into this trillion dollar miracle? Well,
you know what? Somehow this crazy guy
gathered his remaining engineers and
said, "Guys, we are going to build a new
chip and we are going to do it in record
time, but this time we will not test it
on hardware." Now, you know how crazy
this move was in the chip industry.
There is one rule. Always test before
you manufacture. Because a modern-day
chip isn't just a piece of metal. It is
a microscopic city with billions of
transistors, millions of logic gates,
and thousands of interconnected
pathways. It's like building a
skyscraper with 100 billion electrical
switches. Now imagine you cannot touch
the wires, you cannot see the switches,
and you get only one shot to get the
wiring right. And testing is super super
critical because even if one connection
is misouted, the whole chip will fail.
If one logic gate is out of place, the
chip will overheat and crash. And the
cost of this failure is not thousands of
dollars, it is millions of dollars.
Because when you send a chip design to
the factory, they don't make you one
chip. They will manufacture a million
chips. So even if there is just one bug,
you would have just mass-roduced a
million broken chips. But even then,
Jensen sent his chips to TSMC without
physically testing it. It was a madman's
decision. In fact, all Jensen did was
simulate the entire chip in software and
tested it only virtually. Almost like
trying to launch a rocket, but only in a
3D simulation software. If the software
was wrong, even by a nancond, the chip
would be dead on arrival and Nvidia
would be finished. So, after sending the
chips for manufacturing, Jensen and his
team waited for eight long weeks. Nobody
could sleep and every day they would
talk about the same thing. Did we make a
mistake? Did we do everything right? And
what if we missed something and then
finally after 8 weeks the product
arrived and with their heart pounding
the team loaded it and hit power on. And
ladies and gentlemen, what they saw was
a miracle. And this miracle is something
that Jensen will never forget. Guess
what? The chip worked perfectly. No
bugs, no glitches, and the graphics
rendered beautifully. Games ran
smoothly, frame rates flew, and the
developers fell in love with this chip.
This chip was called Reva 128.
>> Nvidia designed its first high
performance graphics chip in 1997.
>> The Reva 128, which stands for realtime
interactive video and animation
accelerator, was a pretty impressive
GPU. Reeba 128 is the world's first uh
fully accelerated hardware accelerated
pipeline for rendering 3D.
>> And once the reviewers used Reeba 128,
they loved it so much that they screamed
to the world that Nvidia had built
something extraordinary. And that is how
the order started coming and Reeva 128
started selling. It sold so well that
within the first 4 months of launch,
Nvidia had shipped 1 million units, more
than any other chip maker in the world.
in the same span. This wasn't just a
comeback. It was the rebirth of Nvidia.
But as usual, again, there was one big
problem. This chip alone wasn't enough
to make Nvidia the $4.2 trillion company
that it is today. Because remember,
Silicon Valley in 1997 was booming with
hundreds of startups with millions of
dollars in funding. So the question is,
how did Nvidia beat the competition and
how did it become the AI god that it is
today? Well, after the miracle chip
Reeva 128 launched, Nvidia became the
undisputed king of 3D graphics
acceleration. And while competitors were
busy catching up, Jensen pushed even
harder. In 1999, Nvidia launched a chip
called the GeForce 256, the world's
first GPU or graphics processing unit.
This is where Nvidia started the
parallel processing revolution. And
here's a video to help you understand
the difference between CPU and GPU
better. In three, two, one.
Uh, let me speed it up.
Okay.
GPU
painting demonstration.
>> Yep.
>> In 10
9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1.
[Applause]
So, long story short, while a CPU
handles a few complex tasks at a time, a
GPU can handle thousands of simple tasks
simultaneously. And in games where you
need every shadow, every bullet, and
every explosion rendered in real time,
this was a superpower. But you know
what, guys? Jensen did not stop there
because Jensen had another non-obvious
insight of the world that no one was
thinking about. You know what that was?
While most people thought GPUs were
built to make games look better, Jensen
saw something the world didn't. He
realized that the same chip that makes a
bullet fly in a game could also
calculate how a rocket lands on Mars, it
could also simulate how cells behave in
the human body or even train a machine
to think like a human. So where others
saw a graphics chip, Jensen saw a new
kind of brain. a brain built not just
for games but for rockets, medicines and
something called artificial
intelligence. And that is when Nvidia
stopped being a chip company and started
becoming the future of computing. So in
2006, Jensen did something that most
CEOs would never do even in their
wildest dreams. He invested all his
profits to build something that didn't
even have a market yet. This product was
a software platform called CUDA. For
nonteies, I have to tell you that CUDA
or computer unified device architecture
was this magical programming model that
unlocked the full power of Nvidia chips.
So before CUDA, GPUs were mostly used
for graphics. But with CUDA, developers
could now use them for anything. For
example, with CUDA, a scientist could
simulate disease outbreaks in seconds. A
self-driving car could see a child
running into traffic and stop. And NASA
could calculate a rocket's path to Mars
in real time. So in short, CUDA turned
Nvidia chips from gaming tools into
worldchanging engines. So magical,
right? After developing CUDA, within a
few years, Nvidia should have become a
billion trillion dollar company, isn't
it? Well, guess what?
It did not. You know why? Because CUDA
was 10 years ahead of its time. Yes,
Cuda was 10 years ahead. So far ahead
that it was almost like inventing the
rocket engine before humans even wanted
to go to space. So CUDA was powerful. It
was futuristic. But nobody knew what to
do with it. In fact, in 2006, AI wasn't
even ready. There was no charge, no
concept of self-driving cars, no billion
parameter models at all. And the world
was still using simple algorithms that
did not need massive computing power at
all. So it's like people were solving
math problems with calculators and
Jensen somehow gave them a supercomput.
What will they do with a supercomput
when they were just using a calculator?
You get this right? So it was powerful
but nobody needed it. Similarly, AI
research was still small and
experimental. So researchers did not
have the data, the models or even the
belief that deep learning would work. So
CUDA was ready but the world wasn't
ready for CUDA. So for 6 years, I
repeat, for 6 years nothing happened.
And then again a miracle happened. You
have Jeffrey Hinton, the godfather of
AI, whose controversial ideas help make
advanced artificial intelligence
possible.
>> Computers were now a lot faster, and now
it's behaving like I thought it would
behave in the mid '80s. It's solving
everything.
>> The arrival of super fast chips and the
massive amounts of data produced on the
internet gave Hinton's algorithms a
magical boost. In 2012, in a quiet lab
at the University of Toronto, young
researchers named Alex and Ilia and
their mentor Jeffrey Hinton did
something absolutely insane. They had a
dream. A dream to build a computer brain
that could see like a human. So, if you
gave the computer an image, they wanted
the computer to tell you if it was a dog
or a cat, a car or a truck, a hospital
room or a battlefield. But here's the
twist. They did not use a giant
supercomput from NASA. As it turns out,
they used an Nvidia chip and it was
powered by Nvidia CUDA. So, this
computer was fed with millions of images
of faces, animals, cars, and cities. And
somehow the GPU did not just crunch
numbers, it started learning. And
eventually the computer learned how to
see. And this AI model was called Alex
Net. And it entered the biggest AI
competition in the world on 30th of
September 2012. And you know this day
will be remembered in history as the day
the world fell in love with Nvidia. You
know why? Because Alex Net did not just
win the biggest AI competition. It
literally obliterated its competition.
>> In 2012, a group of three researchers
submits an entry to a famous competition
where the goal is to create computer
systems that could recognize images and
label them with categories. And their
entry just crushes the competition. It
gets way fewer answers wrong. It was
incredible. It blows everyone away. It's
called Alexet and it's a kind of AI
called a neural network and they did it
on Nvidia GPUs. All of a sudden GPUs
weren't just a way to make computers
faster and more efficient. They're
becoming the engines of a whole new way
of computing.
>> And this was a big big deal because
before Alex Net, AI was considered to be
only theoretical. It was slow, clunky,
and disappointing. But AlexNet proved
three very important things to the
world. Number one, they proved that AI
can learn if you give it enough data.
Secondly, they proved that GPUs are the
perfect brain to train these models. And
last and most importantly, they proved
that CUDA was the secret source that
made it possible. And suddenly the
entire world realized what Jensen had
seen 6 years earlier. This was the spark
that lit the AI revolution in the world.
Because after Alex Net, Google built
better search and translation, Facebook
improved face recognition, Tesla started
training self-driving cars, and OpenAI
began building large language models
that would then be known as Chat GPT.
And guess what? All these companies and
projects had two things in common in
their back end. They all used Nvidia
GPUs and they all used Nvidia's CUDA.
This wasn't just a win for Jensen. This
was the birth of the modern AI
revolution. And when all these giants
started using Nvidia GPUs, Nvidia became
a $4 trillion company. And that is how
Jensen turned a company that was 30 days
away from bankruptcy into a $4 trillion
miracle. Eventually, Nvidia became the
most powerful company on Earth.
>> I try to spend my time as much as I can
on the things that I believe will have
longlasting influence our company. I
wish for you to love your work as much
as I've loved my work. The nearly 6,000
employees at NVIDIA and everybody I've
ever I've ever worked with in the
computer industry knows I love my work.
Nvidia is my life's work, one that I'm
passionate about and one that I'm giving
my very best to make as great as
possible.
[Music]